1. What is Azure ?
	Azure is a cloud platform from Microsoft


	cloud platform is nothing but all the 
		softwares
		hardware	
		services
		servers

		installed in big offices(building) - big complex made up of 50's of building and floors
		called as data center

		and you can connect with this service, install your software, 
		1.have Ur database installed there
		2.have your websites hosted there
		3. have your solutions, like AI, ML, data tools, IOT, storage, harddisk, high ram, processors
				running on this data centers


		Advantages
		-you do not need to buy heavy hardwares	
			high ram (10tb)
			high processors
			super high internet connection
			security
			cooling systems
			
		scaleing
			vertical scale
			horizontal scale


			for scaling - it needs very high investment	
					they need space for the server
					they need to supply electicity to new server
					cooling system to new server
					maintainance will be needed
		company invested a lot for Diwali, and they were able to serve customers 4000 per min

		-------------------
		for companies / startups instead on investing - rent it from Microsoft, aws, gcp etc..
			they call it as cloud

			on Microsoft there are 200+ services
			VM (virtual machine)
			storage
			databases (50+ types of databases)
			App services (host any type of web applications
					MVC, WebAPI, mobile apps, angular, react, node, etc....)
			event based services like
				servicebus,event hub, logic apps etc...


		you can connect them, by buying a subscription, and start using the service next moment
		To buy a subscription, you need to attach your credit card and you are ready to go

		for training purpose, Microsoft isses passes, to learn and use resources (50$)
			you can learn to create resources, test them, check them and then delete them
			explore azure platform



			On Cloud the services are of 3 types
			PASS - PLATFORM - USE THEIR HARDWARE, PRE INSTALLED SOFTWARE
					VM, choose ram, storage, processor etc. and ins
					tall ur own software (100)
			SASS - Software as a service 
					eg. SQL Server (they are running the server,
						you can create the data)
					this is a like a shared server
					you will just pay for database, creation (40)
					
			IAAS - infrastrure
				only hardware - you can do what ever you want on that hardware
			store backup
			create your own services etc..
			rent that hardware to others

1. we will go ahead with our first service
		SQL
			can be created in 3 ways

			1. New SQL Server instance - create your own server, 		
				create 50+ databases on this server, take backup, have your own 					security, create more users, roles etc..get more control
			2. create sql database - use a server by Microsoft, you will get less 				 control on the server - cheaper than above 1
			3. create virtual machine, install server inside it and use it
				more control
				if you have many service to use
				APP service
				Data related
				reporting
				analytics
				sql server
				oracle
			buy your own vm and install all inside machine and manage from 1 place

		for your projects
		you will have 1 server per project
		(use the 50$ very wisely, follow instructions, Microsoft will not issue new pass or balance if you loose the $)

































































			




			


	