	1. 10+ developers are working on a same project on same module
		-- developers are located at differnt locations
		--eg login page
			2 developers are working UI
			2 on database
			2 on testing
			2 on connectivity
			2 are programming with C#

		they all neeed to share the code

		So how do they share the code ???
			Email ??

	2. Versioning of code - Version Management System

		This is something which as a problem was faced by founder of Linux System

		Thus he founded a system called Version Management Control for internal use
		Later did architectural changes and made it online for testing and then finally open to public
			as an open source

		recently it was been purchased by Microsoft and now it has 2 faces
			-- Github public
			-- Github enterprise (paid version) - this is private on for teams and org



		Repository Management Systems
		- GIThub
		- Microsoft Team Foundation Server (On premises server - in office)
		- Microsoft Azure Devops (online version of above)
		- SVN - by open source community 
		- BitBucket - version control management - respository system 







----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
		
	1. Github desktop for your machine (Windows, mac, linux)
		2 flavours
			UI (menu options and buttons, no need to remember any commands, this is for windows 				only)
			CLI based - Command Line Interface - commands

	2. Create a new Github account

	3.  Create a repository / also called as repo on git hub - a blank new 1
		https://github.com/nikhilshah85/E-Y-Induction-24.git

		repository - A folder which will contain all the files, folders, images, documents etc..
			repository has branches 	
				branches are for different modules, teams of project, segegration 
				eg. for a banking project there will be branches
					1. accounts (savings acc, current acc, pf acc etc)
					2. Loan (all the types of loans, their code, etc..)
					3. Investment 
	4. we will clone this respository to our local machine 
		Map the git repo to your local machine

	when you clone the repo, will map both your machine and git repo, from here on you will store, create all the files in this folder


	5. Let us move some folders and files inside this newly created repo, and then we will move it to 		git
	
	point inside the repo folder from command prompt

	6. git add . (this will add all the changes that you made) 

	7. git commit -m "Add a new folder and a new file"

	8. git push (this will upload all the new files, edited files, deleted files from git repo)











	
	
































